(In Progress)

This post is something I've been thinking about writing for quite a while and will be a long one. I was inspired to write it
by my own trials and tribulations, which are still ongoing, while working with the QGIS API, trying to programmatically do
stuff in QGIS instead of relying on available widgets and plugins. After spending many years working with ESRI/ArcGIS I have
made the transition to QGIS almost completely and have become a big fan. But this does not mean the transition has been
seemless. I have spent, and will continue to spend, many hours scouring the internet and especially Stack Overflow looking
for answers to how to use various classes, methods, attributes, etc. Especially in the beginning, but still quite often, I
feel like probably the dumbest person to have ever installed QGIS. I thought to myself many a time: "Am I an idiot or is this
not as easy as it appears?". After getting in contact with more QGIS users it appears that I am not alone. A great number of
QGIS users are struggling just as I am. One common thought I hear is: "I wish the documentation was a little more fleshed out,
provided more examples, was easier to follow...". This quelled my fears somewhat, it appeared I was not alone.

First, I would like to make it clear I am not taking shots at QGIS, the QGIS development team, or contributors. I am a big
QGIS fan and really appreciate all the hard work they've done to make QGIS what it is today. Before I dive into the ins and 
outs of how to help yourself I'd like to take a zen approach to the whole process and remind you, and myself, that QGIS is
a work in progress and is not flawless. In my experience, it appears that sometimes nobody has all the answers about why stuff
doesn't work, including said members of the development team. So take all this in stride and press onward.

Honestly, I am a pretty novice python user and far from a QGIS API expert. Even still, I have figured out some tips and tricks 
that I wish I had stumbled upon when I was learning the ropes and am attempting to synthesize this information, which I have
scraped from many sources, all in one place. I will also include quite a few examples to illustrate different points and show
how I attempt to attack the problem. Also, I'm going to break this into a series of blog posts to make them more digestible.

Lets begin from the top. What is the QGIS API?
[QGIS API Snippet from Gary Sherman's book]. 
When you dive into the world of QGIS programming, you'll want to locate the documentation, which is available in several places.
It took me a minute to figure out what is what. A really nice place to start is [The PyQGIS Developer's Cookbook](https://docs.qgis.org/testing/en/docs/pyqgis_developer_cookbook/).
The Developer's Cookbook is both a tutorial and reference guide for the basics of PyQGIS programming. I reference it a lot.
Next, you need to know where to find QGIS API documentation, you can find this in two forms. In Python and C++. Use them,
bookmark them.
